[Music]
Organizations can leverage the almost unlimited
amount of data now available to them in a
growing number of ways.
However, all organizations ultimately use
data science for the same reason—to discover
optimum solutions to existing problems.
Let’s take a look at three examples of data
science providing innovative solutions for
old problems.
In transport, Uber collects real-time user
data to discover how many drivers are available,
if more are needed, and if they should allow
a surge charge to attract more drivers.
Uber uses data to put the right number of
drivers in the right place, at the right time,
for a cost the rider is willing to pay.
In a different transport related data science
effort, the Toronto Transportation Commission
has made great strides in solving an old problem
with traffic flows, restructuring those flows
in and around the city.
Using data science tools and analysis, they
have:
Gathered data to better understand streetcar
operations, and identify areas for interventions
Analyzed customer complaints data,
Used probe data to better understand traffic
performance on main routes and
created a team to better capitalize on big
data for both planning, operations and evaluation
By focusing on peak hour clearances and identifying
the most congested routes, monthly hours lost
for commuters due to traffic congestion dropped
from 4.75 hrs. in 2010 to 3 hrs. in mid-2014.
In facing issues in our environment, data
science can also play a proactive role.
Freshwater lakes supply a variety of human
and ecological needs, such as providing drinking
water and producing food.
But lakes across the world are threatened
by increasing incidences of harmful cyanobacterial
blooms.
There are many projects and studies to solve
this long-existing dilemma.
In the US, a team of scientists from research
centers stretching from Maine to South Carolina
is developing and deploying high-tech tools
to explore cyanobacteria in lakes across the
east coast.
The team is using robotic boats, buoys, and
camera-equipped drones to measure physical,
chemical, and biological data in lakes where
cyanobacteria are detected, collecting large
volumes of data related to the lakes and the
development of the harmful blooms.
The project is also building new algorithmic
models to assess the findings.
The information collected will lead to better
predictions of when and where cyanobacterial
blooms take place, enabling proactive approaches
to protect public health in recreational lakes
and in those that supply drinking water.
Such interdisciplinary training prepares the
next generation of scientists to address societal
issues with the proper modernized data science
tools.
It takes gathering a lot of data, cleaning
and preparing it, and then analyzing it to
gain the insight needed to develop better
solutions for today's enterprises.
How do you get a better solution that is efficient?
You must:
Identify the problem and establish a clear
understanding of it.
Gather the data for analysis.
Identify the right tools to use,
and develop a data strategy.
Case studies are also helpful in customizing
a potential solution.
Once these conditions exist and available
data is extracted, you can develop a machine
learning model.
It will take time for an organization to refine
best practices for data strategy using data
science, but the benefits are worth it.
[Music]